this is the foundation for all the other
yoga courses to follow which shows some
of the important features of the
software yoga involves understanding
channeling and mastering the traumatic
energy patterns within the mind and
transforming them into a meaningful and
compassionate
reality the process by which yoga
practice unfolds is known as Saad sad is
study of the self by the self the peak
experience culminates in the union of
the individual soul with the universal
spirit
it is crucial we know what thought
patterns emotions and intentions are the
cause of suffering and how it's
preventing us from experiencing and
sharing joy and
compassion in order to accomplish this
we need to record and monitor the
workings of our mind and get the reports
that gives us an intimate knowledge of
our thought
patterns the source of stress and
suffering are identified we need to
introduce strategies for change witness
the transformation and manage the
process as it happens
the tools in this software will Empower
you to engage in this process and
participate in its development and
refinement for use of future
Generations the analysis of the data you
enter will provide you with knowledge on
how Elemental changes in your mind are
impacting the level of creativity joy
and compassion you experience personally
and influence
globally so let us lay the foundation
for Spade study of self by the self
towards ultimate creativity
unfortunately we humans spend all our
time engaged in thoughts associated with
attachment Rag and aversion Thea which
is part of the sympathetic nervous
system as a result our creative
faculties are usually busy manifesting
stress and suffering mostly without our
even knowing it
the sympathetic nervous system is made
up of our phight oflight reactions and
the drive for survival and affiliation
and you will be hearing a lot about
these two over the next few
courses the other part of the human
autonomic nervous system is the
parasympathetic nervous system the
dominance of this leads to compassion
and contentment and this is what we are
trying to
cultivate Beauty creativity and
compassion are attributes of the
parasympathetic and is activated through
love kindness and selfless
service the art of yoga will require
consistent and deliberate effort on your
part to move from the painful
sympathetic mindset to the life-giving
parasympathetic state of virtue
nonviolence kindness and
compassion the goal is to keep the
sympathetic nervous system turned off as
much as possible by choosing to spend as
much time in the parasympathetic Zone
where joy and Tranquility reign
supreme a person averages 60,000
thoughts a day amazingly 95% of those
are the same thoughts repeated every day
and 80% of those thoughts are
negative so naturally we will start our
demo with recording thoughts and
intentions associated with
suffering it is crucial to remember that
the painful and the peaceful systems
work in opposition to each other either
one or the other is activated all of the
time unfortunately the Mind associated
with the one that creates suffering for
ourselves and others however always
precedence because it is concerned with
base level egotistical demands and
desires so here we are recording a
negative thought pattern associated with
the sympathetic nervous system click on
uh lab thought and emotion tracker if
not registered you will be prompted here
to do so I am so I'll log in here are
three options and I can click on the
information icon to understand the
options better self to self self to
others and others to self I read through
that and I'll close
it I will select the source of the
disturbance and click
next here we have emotions feelings and
intentions that the trigger elicited the
trigger is not the phight oflight
reactions it's the drive and affiliation
but we'll get to that later there's
research at your fingertips here's
research on fight of flight or Thomas as
known in Sanskrit everything is cited
emotions associated with fight or flight
also have researched
information um and how it relates to
yoga and science here we are looking at
research on
shame lengthy
research uh to empower you feelings
Associated uh to emotions can be seen by
clicking on meaning we are looking at
Shin right now feeling embarrassed
distressed as a result of failure is sh
grain what I'm going to do I'll select
the thoughts and feelings that I want to
record and then I will click next to go
to drive for survival and affiliation
known as rajes in
Sanskrit I'm looking at the meaning for
worry just to make sure I'm selecting
the right one here I'm selecting what
led to my fight or flight experience
earlier on and this is where I know what
the trigger is looking at areas of life
friends very important to categorize uh
uh information and all our thoughts and
intentions and emotions are in relation
to areas for example Health family
friends uh finances Etc we can manage
both the areas and people from the back
end I will select an area here dreams
because this record is in relation to a
dream um I had uh next I'll select the
people cleverly done through associating
pride in achievement of types we have
managed to spawn insecurity andone
maliciousness between people communities
and countries and only people can do
that and um we can manage people from
the back end also we'll we'll see that
later next is date and time and we can
back date our record sometimes we don't
have our phone with me uh I don't have
my phone with me so I can't make a
record right when I'm going through an
experience or experiencing an emotion uh
very important tag and details and you
can uh modify the the details later on
so it really if you're busy just make a
quick entry and run here you have the
details uh to the entry and um through
the management tool we can add update
delete and we'll look at that later
you're probably thinking this is great
but do I have to go through all those
steps each time no you don't thanks to
95% of our thoughts being repetitive you
can duplicate a record by a couple of
clicks and I will show you that feature
next then we will see a demo on how to
move towards love and compassion and
view report new tutorials will be added
every two weeks uh on yoga and relation
to its relation to modern science uh and
all this is not just as an intellectual
exercise but as an actual experience
that can be assimilated in your daily
life approximately 95% of our thoughts
are repeated daily to save you the
effort of recording repeating thoughts
we will see how to duplicate it in
seconds so we'll do that now I go to lab
thought and emotion tracker once again
thought
tracker I pick by area there's three
options you can pick records by
transaction by area by importance I like
the area one so I always use that I will
select the parameters for the search so
right now what I'm doing is selecting
the date I can select from one day to
100 days and now the area remember I was
emphasizing the importance of area I'm
selecting meditation in this case
because I'm just showing you a duplicate
um and in this case I'm where the Good
Records I want or the bad records I
selected the good ones and uh not that I
don't want to show you my bad ones I
will talk about myself and you will know
that I'm not all that good uh now what
we're going to do over here we will look
at the options and then confirm the
Quick Pick once we confirm the Quick
Pick we have D duplicated the record and
then we can go to the management tool
and then make the changes so we have
duplicated the record
and now I will manage this particular
transaction because it was just a
duplication so this is the management
screen many times thoughts and emotions
overlap good bad bad good and that is
what happened to me at 2:00 a.m. so I'm
just using that as an example I'm going
to drive an affiliation I got a text in
the middle of my meditation and that
that I was $30 over my bandwidth uh
drive for survival kicked in and I was
in stress you know I was in the middle
of my meditation and I was experiencing
stress so I picked up my phone and
started making
um a mindful entry and right now I'm
adding details to what happened and
after make uh an entry I can add notes
to each entry you see this is so
important and um what had happened I had
left my phone on roaming and that's how
the I didn't realize and the bill got to
$30 and I got a text my practice raised
my awareness that the ego is trying to
exert its Authority I knew that I was
aware of it so I made a mindfulness
Interruption by making a stress and
awareness entry and this short circuited
the ego so I wasn't feeling that pain
anymore a year ago raising awareness
automatically for me was extremely
difficult I was sleeping on the streets
hurting but busy developing this
software to bring my pain and anguish
under control and help others who are
suffering it took me nine years of
research and development so now here I
am adding the note to the mindful uh
mindfulness entry the good one that I
made so courses to follow we go into
details on how the brain changes when
you use this software to form new associ
ations in the mind and change the neurot
transmitter wiring next I will do a
quick demo on recording parasympathetic
inclinations for love kindness and
compassion and then show you guys a few
awesome reports so wow that was Heavy
fast okay so once again I clicked the
option to move away from suffering our
brain needs to feel kindness and
compassion there is no other way so we
are going to make a compassion oriented
entry so I am basically Ally choosing
making my
selections right now compassion like
physical and academic skills appears to
be something that is not fixed but
rather can be enhanced with training and
practice so I'm making my selections I
click next once again I come to areas
compassion is an aspiration that
involves being sensitive to the
suffering in ourselves and others with a
deep motivation to alleviate and the
commitment to help other people I think
I I read that wrong but that's okay so
the cardiovascular system and the Brain
influence each other during the
processing of information the M mere Act
of paying attention to one's
compassionate behavior when interacting
with others enhances the integrated
neurons in the brain when this is done
over period of time it creates a
compassionate State States become trait
and a compassionate trait determines
one's behavior that was fast okay I
finished making the entry now I'm
looking at the details next reports
so now we are looking at reports science
without spirituality is lame said
Einstein friends going to left thoughts
and emotion track our goal is to keep
the fight oflight reactions and the
negative drive for affiliation and in
intentions turned off as much as
possible by choosing to spend as much
time in the spiritual inclination Zone
let's see if that is true in my case
over the past day my positive mind has
had a 300% advantage over my negative
reactions and intentions this wasn't
always the case used to be reversed the
effect show up in our creative potential
poal to positively influence the Law of
Attraction degree of contentment and
beauty of heart mind body and soul let's
see now what the triggers were like this
gives me a quick view on the source of
the triggers that elicited the reaction
self to self seven others to self two
and nine self to others we will go to
emotion drill down now this is um an
intimate look at how much time was spent
nurturing the soul and how much time
degrading it fight tolight reaction
shame three anxiety one
and we'll go down and look at quickly
drive and affiliation intentions and
then the spiritual
inclinations we're going to go back up
and do a uh drill down drill down into
my head now this knowledge is true power
friends how many of us actually get to
have this invaluable experience on a
daily basis this is true empowerment one
more quick report to look at individual
record details your feedbacks are what
helps me create these these things these
reports I mean so please keep them
coming selecting the dates according to
research and my personal experience the
more you record the process of the
psyche the more the Mind slows down the
awareness Rises to incredible Heights
and as the Mind slows down the negative
influences in Life Starts receding
patience is important because it's a
slow process extremely helpful is the
insight into the resistance to our
changes to to the change and attitudinal
shifts which Sidetrack us from creating
a m and a happy life the Rea enacting of
trauma is over because the roots of the
suffering is discovered friends but yoga
is a lifelong practice and there's
always more work to do I personally
can't wait daily to engage in this
powerful journey of Miracles through
analytical exploration using this
software I hope you will experience the
same joy and enthusiasm for life through
this journey of self-actualization that
I do and stay happy until the next
tutorial I will talk to you very soon